so then US President Joe Biden is
threatening to stop the supply of
weapons to Israel if it launches a
large-scale attack on Rafa Washington
has been pressuring Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for weeks
not to send forces into the city in the
south of Gaza where more than 1 and a
half million displaced Palestinians have
been Sheltering in his strongest
comments to date Biden confirmed the US
has already paused a shipment of weapons
to Israel consisting of thousands of
large bombs and admitted that Americans
supplied weapons that are killing
Palestinians civilians have been killed
in Gaza as a consequence of those bombs
and other ways in which they go after
population centers and it made it clear
that if they go into Rafa they haven't
gone into Rafa yet if they go into Rafa
I'm not supplying the weapons that have
been used historically to deal with
rafin but some Israeli forces are on the
ground in Rafer and they've been
targeting residential areas and on
Wednesday Israeli tanks forc the raff of
border crossing to Egypt to close it's
the main entry point for a trucks to get
into Gaza John henin begins our coverage
from
Chicago the president has said he is not
going to ship Munitions offensive
Munitions into Israel he says he will
continue to supply the uh defensive
weapons such as the Iron Dome
interceptors but because he's been
specifically urging Israel not to go
into Rafa at a time when a million
people are Sheltering there and the US
has expressed a concern about their
safety said he does not want to send
those offensive weapons the big bombs in
there and Lloyd Austin the Secretary of
Defense told members of Congress that
that amounts to one shipment of
Munitions now they haven't decided if
that shipment will go forward in a in
the future but because uh an invasion of
R Rafa in a larger sense seems to be
about to go forward uh the Biden
Administration is saying it is going to
draw the line and that's really the
first time that we know of publicly that
Biden has said no to Israel during this
conflict he's long said that Israel has
been too aggressive in this battle that
too many civilians have died this is the
first time we know of that he simply
said no you may not have these well Doug
Bando is a senior fellow at the Kato
Institute and editor of the political
magazine uh inquiry he's also a former
Special Assistant to President Ronald
Reagan joins us now from Washington DC
Doug Welcome to our deser good to have
you here with us uh so what to what
extent do you think Biden's hand has
been forced here is he speaking simply
to appease potential
voters I think he is dealing with very
serious political problems he has a lot
of progressive young progressives and as
well as Arab Americans who've been very
angry about his stand in Gaza and his
support for Israel he's worried about
losing those votes in November and the
campus protests have intensified that he
hoped that this crisis would go away but
these protests have actually Amplified
it made it more threatening to him so I
believe this is an effort to show that
he's heard them and that he is willing
to uh you know put pressure on Israel
for the first time
in a way that we have never seen before
you mentioned his support for Israel and
given that steadfast support uh to date
do you think that this would this
decision would have come hard for him
personally I think this is very
difficult for him he has long said he's
the most pro-israeli president ever
earlier in the uh you Gaza operation he
said that he would do nothing to
interfere with Israel's right to defend
itself so this is a major step forward
to withhold some of those Munitions and
bombs you know the Israelis have to pay
attention to that and what about the
protesters now do you think this will go
any way to appease
them my guess is that one one time is
not enough they will look at this and
tell themselves we need to protest more
that we finally got the president's
attention he finally responded but they
want to ceasefire they want to end this
conflict so I think they're going to go
on with their protests and what about
the other side of this what about for
Benjamin Netanyahu and Israel and the
Rafer offensive how do you think it's
going to uh implicate
that it's going to be a very real
challenge if they lose access to these
Munitions it's going to be harder for
them
to prosecute the war Yahoo's political
future really depends on keeping the war
going if there was an election tomorrow
he'd almost certainly lose
he's also going to be under
extraordinary pressure from other
Coalition Partners they want the war to
continue they threatened to abandon him
if he doesn't and uh you know it's going
to be hard almost any Israeli is going
to feel some frustration at being told
by the US how it should run its campaign
so I suspect they may go ahead and uh
try a game of geopolitical chicken with
the US how long a pause in the supply of
weapons
would there have to be uh to make a
difference to Israel's ability to attack
I mean you know how much what's their
Arsenal like how much stock do they
have well they certainly have a lot but
this kind of campaign they've expended
an awful lot what's important is if you
launch a campaign is you want to know
that your supplies are secure because at
the moment you know it's conceivable the
US would restart but then if the re us
cuts off in the future the Israelis
could be in a vulnerable position they
might have started hostilities again
engaged in a lot of activity and
suddenly find themselves without
necessary uh you know Munitions so it's
hard to run a campaign if you're not
certain that the resupply is
coming in terms of uh talking of
campaigns in terms of Joe Biden's
political campaign uh also very
difficult given the uncertainty of what
could happen in Rafa and within the
whole gazer
issue exactly he's going to be
criticized by Israel supporters in the
US it's almost certain that Republicans
on Capitol Hill as well as uh Donald
Trump who uh you know is leading in a
lot of polls are going to use this
against the president they're going to
play the pro-israel card so this is
going to be a very difficult campaign
for President Biden you know this is an
issue he really did hope would disappear
and what he's found is it won't and he's
in D of antagonizing both sides
now Doug Bando senior fellow at the Koo
Institute thanks a
lot thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler